---
toc: true
layout: post
description: Unix tips.
categories: [deep learning, coding]
title: Unix tips and common solutions.
---

## My encountered problems and solutions

This part of blog is dedicated to problems that I run into regularly but not often enough to remember the solutions.

0. [Markdown cheatsheet](https://github.com/adam-p/markdown-here/wiki/Markdown-Cheatsheet) to make this nice style.

#### OS, bash, and installation problems and solutions

1. Cannot uninstall '<package>'. It is a distutils installed project and thus we cannot accurately determine which files belong to it and which would lead to only a partial uninstall.
This problem occurred while updating [DVC](https://pypi.org/project/dvc/). The fast and easy solution without burden of downgrading pip, resolving it, and upgrading pip back was found on [stackoverflow](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/53807511/pip-cannot-uninstall-package-it-is-a-distutils-installed-project)
`pip install --ignore-installed`

1. `screen -S your_name` and renaming already existing screen from [stackoverflow](https://stackoverflow.com/a/3309696/3467942)

2.1. In case screen is bugged and appears as `attached` but you have no open terminal with this screen

```shell
screen -r yourName
There is a screen on:
        8600.yourName      (02/28/2021 01:33:59 PM)        (Attached)
There is no screen to be resumed matching yourName.
```

Then you can reconnect with `screen -D -r yourName`

#### Anaconda

1. Never use conda base env for `conda update -n base conda` - it can ruin all conda installation, especially when there are more than one python version installed. (for example python3.7 and python3.8)

#### Jupyter

1. Can't select kernel in notebook or jupyter lab.

- Install in `(base)` conda env `pip install --user ipykernel` and add your virtual environment to Jupyter by typing:
`python -m ipykernel install --user --name=myCondaEnv`

#### PIP

1. How to solve ReadTimeoutError: HTTPSConnectionPool(host='pypi.python.org', port=443) with pip?

- stop proxy or active VPN for installation time. In my case I stopped Hamachi LogMeIn client and reconnected to Wi-Fi.

#### Docker

1. Run nvidia-based docker mapping it to all available GPUs on the machine
`docker run -it --rm -v /data:/data --gpus all --shm-size=64g my/docker_name:version1`. Where `-v` is mapping, `--rm` performs clean up when the task is done.

2. Connect running container `docker exec -it e14e37231d7c /bin/bash`. To detach use `ctrl+P+Q`

#### Bash

1. Disk space management. `df -h` and `du -h --max-depth=1`
2. Find and remove `find /dir/to/search/ -type f -name "FILE-TO-FIND-Regex" -exec rm -f {} \;`, for example `find . -type f -name "events.out.tfevents.*" -exec rm -f {} \;`
